Classifications of Cybercrimes
Cybercrimes in general can be classified into four categories:
1. Individual Cyber Crimes:This type is targeting individuals. It includes phishing, spoofing, spam, cyberstalking, and more.
2. Organisation Cyber Crimes:The main target here is organizations. Usually, this type of crime is done by teams of criminals including malware attacks and denial of service attacks.
3. Property Cybercrimes:This type targets property like credit cards or even intellectual property rights.
4. Society Cybercrimes:This is the most dangerous form of cybercrime as it includes cyber-terrorism.


Most Common Cyber Crimes
Now that you understand what cybercrimes are, let’s discuss some common cybercrimes. 
1. Phishing and Scam: Phishing is a type of social engineering attack that targets the user and tricks them by sending fake messages and emails to get sensitive information about the user or trying to download malicious software and exploit it on the target system.
2. Identity Theft: Identity theft occurs when a cybercriminal uses another person’s personal data like credit card numbers or personal pictures without their permission to commit a fraud or a crime.
3. Ransomware Attack Ransomware attacks are a very common type of cybercrime. It is a type of malware that has the capability to prevent users from accessing all of their personal data on the system by encrypting them and then asking for a ransom in order to give access to the encrypted data.
4. Hacking/Misusing Computer Networks: This term refers to the crime of unauthorized access to private computers or networks and misuse of it either by shutting it down or tampering with the data stored or other illegal approaches.
5. Internet Fraud: Internet fraud is a type of cybercrimes that makes use of the internet and it can be considered a general term that groups all of the crimes that happen over the internet like spam, banking frauds, theft of service, etc.


Other Types of Cybercrime
Here are another 9 types of cybercrimes
1. Cyber Bullying: It is also known as online or internet bullying. It includes sending or sharing harmful and humiliating content about someone else which causes embarrassment and can be a reason for the occurrence of psychological problems. It became very common lately, especially among teenagers.
2. Cyber Stalking: Cyberstalking can be defined as unwanted persistent content from someone targeting other individuals online with the aim of controlling and intimidating like unwanted continued calls and messages.
3. Software Piracy: Software piracy is the illegal use or copy of paid software with violation of copyrights or license restrictions.
4. Social Media Frauds: The use of social media fake accounts to perform any kind of harmful activities like impersonating other users or sending intimidating or threatening messages. And one of the easiest and most common social media frauds is Email spam.
5. Online Drug Trafficking: With the big rise of cryptocurrency technology, it became easy to transfer money in a secured private way and complete drug deals without drawing the attention of law enforcement. This led to a rise in drug marketing on the internet. 
6. Electronic Money Laundering: Also known as transaction laundering. It is based on unknown companies or online business that makes approvable payment methods and credit card transactions but with incomplete or inconsistent payment information for buying unknown products.
7. Cyber Extortion: Cyber extortion is the demand for money by cybercriminals to give back some important data they've stolen or stop doing malicious activities such as denial of service attacks.
8. Intellectual-property Infringements: It is the violation or breach of any protected intellectual-property rights such as copyrights and industrial design.
9. Online Recruitment Fraud: One of the less common cybercrimes that are also growing to become more popular is the fake job opportunities released by fake companies for the purpose of obtaining a financial benefit from applicants or even making use of their personal data.
